docs(tcp): add documentation for k6/x/tcp extension and its API methods (#2233)
grafana/k6-docs: docs/sources/k6/next/javascript-api/k6-x-tcp/_index.md

---
title: 'k6/x/tcp'
description: 'k6 TCP extension API'
weight: 11
---

# k6/x/tcp

{{< docs/shared source="k6" lookup="official-extension.md" version="<K6_VERSION>" >}}

> The `k6/x/tcp` module adds first-class support for raw TCP socket communication to your performance testing scripts. With this extension, you can establish TCP connections, send and receive data, and test network protocols directly from your k6 tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `k6/x/tcp` module adds first-class support for raw TCP socket communication to your performance testing scripts. With this extension, you can establish TCP connections and send and receive data directly from your k6 tests.
```

I think my suggestion got lost in the previous comment. 🤓

> The `k6/x/tcp` module adds first-class support for raw TCP socket communication to your load testing and performance scripts. With this extension, you can establish TCP connections, send and receive data, and test network protocols directly from your k6 tests.

Reviewer 2: Accordying to https://github.com/grafana/k6-docs/pull/2234, I guess it should be "performance testing".

```suggestion
The `k6/x/tcp` module adds first-class support for raw TCP socket communication to your performance testing scripts. With this extension, you can establish TCP connections, send and receive data, and test network protocols directly from your k6 tests.
```

Reviewer 2: I'm perhaps a bit nitpicky, but:

> _and test network protocols directly from your k6 tests._

Sounds to me as the typical sentence written by AI that a human wouldn't typically write as-is. Isn't this TCP-specific? Is it really designed to "test network protocols" other than TCP? My intuition says that you would typically use other abstractions for network protocols other than TCP, like HTTP, even if they go over TCP, but I might be wrong.. 😅

Reviewer: 👍 on both points @joanlopez. Maybe we can just edit the last sentence so it's:

```suggestion
The `k6/x/tcp` module adds first-class support for raw TCP socket communication to your performance testing scripts. With this extension, you can establish TCP connections and send and receive data directly from your k6 tests.
```

> The API is designed to feel familiar to users of Node.js's [`net.Socket`](https://nodejs.org/api/net.html#class-netsocket), with event-driven programming, Promise-based operations, and comprehensive lifecycle management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you've used Node.js's [`net.Socket`](https://nodejs.org/api/net.html#class-netsocket), the API will feel familiar, with event-driven programming, Promise-based operations, and comprehensive lifecycle management.
```
